# My Reflective Report

## Week 1
### What have I learnt this week?
- Is everything a system?  Why or why not?

Not everything is a system due to the fact that multiple elements or parts may not have a relationship to each other, meaning that they are not a system. However, systems can be found practically everywhere, regardless of whether it is a living thing, a society or a technical construct.
- As we have defined complex systems would a passenger aircraft qualify as one?

A passenger aircraft could qualify as a complex system due to the fact that it functions differently depending on external and internal pressures. The aircraft can be perceived as complex as opposed to complicated since it does not act in the exact same way each time it is used, and its outcome, whilst similar, is not completely predictable.
- Would the aircraft in question 2 qualify as a Complex Adaptive System?  Why or why not?

Whilst the passenger aircraft can be perceived as a complex system, it would not qualify as a complex adaptive system, since the aircraft itself does not evolve/adapt itself over time. Also, the characteristics of complex adaptive systems, specifically the distributed control characteristic, do not apply to the aircraft, since it does not behave autonomously.
### What do I 'now know' that I did not before?
Following the completion of Module 1, I have gathered a far greater understanding of what a system is, completely eradicating any preconceived notions that I may have taken into the subject. I now understand the fact that systems are a far more intricate concept than previously thoughts, now understanding that a system does not have to be entirely technical or social, and can take a sociotechnical form, incorporating hardware and software, as well as human interaction, which all form relationships in order to complete a task, or various tasks.
### What insights have I gained?
Due to an enhanced understanding of the notion of a system, specifically a complex adaptive system, I have been able to recognise the emergence of such systems in all aspects of society, not just within the IT world. Such systems are being incorporated into businesses, educational institutions and households all across the world. This has allowed me to acknowledge the necessity of the subject, recognising how such systems are crucial in our current climate, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, where such systems are allowing employees and students to continue working without having to directly interact with other people.
### What are (my/the) perceived strengths and weaknesses that I have observed?
The strengths that I have recognised upon the completion of Module 1 is that I have created an organised and structured set of folders and files to assist with my studies throughout the remainder of the subject. I have also installed and set up any software that is required for the subject, despite the fact that I am not at all familiar with such applications/services. However, upon reflecting on such resources, such as Github, Python and Anaconda, I have recognised that with my dedication to the subject, as well as the guidance of the educators, I should be able to understand how such resources will apply to the subject, as well as my career in IT, ultimately contributing to success in such an emerging career.
However, despite these strengths, there are also weaknesses that I have recognised upon reflecting on Module 1, which include the previously mentioned inexperience with such resources which include programming, which has always been an area of IT that I have seemed to struggle with. Also, another observed weakness which should hopefully diminish as the subject progresses is keeping up with the various platforms used to run all subjects this semester in an online and on-campus environment. However, despite not having Canvas prior to this subject, similarly to the other resources, with enough practice and experience, I should be able to adapt and grow more comfortable with the learning environment.
### What were the challenges I have encountered/observed and how well (did I/my team) handle them?
When reflecting on the first week of the subject, a major challenge which I believed to have stagnated my learning was my inability to find the subject’s textbook, which was said to have been available on the UTS Library website. However, this problem was soon ameliorated when it was announced through email that the textbook was not yet available, and that the subject coordinator had contacted the library about releasing an electronic copy of the book onto the website. However, whilst this problem was resolved, I did not actively contact anyone to find a solution to my problem.
### What would I do better next time and with what anticipated results?
Upon reflecting on how I handled the previously mentioned challenge that I encountered, I understand that the next time I face a challenge that may affect my learning, I should immediately contact the subject coordinator, or anyone that can answer any questions that I may have, This is a far more effective and appropriate response to any concerns that I may have, as opposed to simply waiting for an announcement to be made.
### What theory proved to be useful and why? What have I learnt from this?
Upon reflecting on Module 1, the theory that appeared to be the most useful to me as I aspire to have a career in information systems, is the fact that sociotechnical systems rely just as much on the people that develop, maintain and interact with the technology than on the hardware and software itself. This is crucial to understand due to the fact that the system can not be analysed based on individual parts or elements, as it is the relationships between all the parts of a system which allow tasks to be performed and objectives to be met. This is necessary to understand since one who interacts with such systems must have an intricate understanding of all aspects of the system, not just individual elements.



## Week 2
### What have I learnt this week?
This week, I was able to acknowledge the various uses of models, not only in businesses, but also in everyday life, since models assist with both basic and complex decision making and allow information to be communicated and explored in practically all areas of life. This led into understanding how one model can be applied to many uses, which is vital in systems since it can be made evident that diversity and combinations of ideas allows for a much more concise and accurate understanding of a concept.
### What do I 'now know' that I did not before?
Due to the above notions that I learned during the subject’s workshop, I have been able to comprehend how many model thinking uses various approaches and theorems to broaden the ability to collect, analyse and process data, leading to the development of wisdom, which allows appropriate knowledge to be applied to certain scenarios through averaging the results of ‘many models’. This correlates to the ‘wisdom of the crowd’ concept, which argues the importance of variety and how it results in more defined results. Upon reflecting upon such ideas, I have been able to understand how the diversity prediction theorem is in fact a reliable and successful approach, which challenges any preconceived notions that I may have had when thinking about such ideas.
### What insights have I gained?
Upon completing the module’s discussion board activity for this week, I was able to recognise the presence of many model thinking in my workplace, which is a concept that I have not previously recognised. However, upon reflecting on the success of such models in the working environment, I have been able to understand how many models allow for much more appropriate decision making, since without such thinking, many decisions would be uninformed, rushed and would most likely end in failure. Hence, since I have been able to reflect upon how many model thinking is used in different aspects of my life, I am more open to applying it to other predicaments where it would assist in decision making.
### What are (my/the) perceived strengths and weaknesses that I have observed?
Throughout the completion of module 2, as well as module 1, the strengths that I perceive to have been the most evident was my ability to interact with the discussion board activities. This is due to the fact that only a select amount of students have contributed to such activities, allowing me to recognise my commitment to the subject and how I would like to learn more and interact to an even greater extent during the course of this subject. However, weaknesses that I have recognised when reflecting on my contribution to the discussion board for module 2  is my feedback on other people’s responses. This is a weakness due to the fact that I have yet to provide constructive criticisms or debate somebody else’s opinion, which is said to be an important aspect of interacting with the online discussions. 
### What were the challenges I have encountered/observed and how well (did I/my team) handle them?
The most significant problem during this week’s workshop was the issues with connectivity. Due to the fact that the household has seen a significant increase of working from home due to the pandemic, the internet limitations has been a constant issue for most subjects. However, it seemed to be significantly worse during this week’s workshop since I dropped out on multiple occasions, missing a few of the significant points stated throughout the tutorial. However, I dealt with this by reading over the provided materials on Canvas, writing detailed notes, prior to the workshop, ensuring that I understand most of the topics before the workshop, using it to further my understanding of such topics and adding to the notes. 
### What would I do better next time and with what anticipated results?
Reflecting on my approach to the connectivity issues, I realise that it would have been significantly more beneficial to simply ask the teacher to go over the point that I may have missed again, instead of simply passing over it after I drop out of the workshop. This would most likely be the more appropriate scenario since it is necessary that I understand all of the content provided in the workshops, and that the teachers would likely be happy to go over certain topics again and answer any additional questions that I may have for the points that I missed.
### What theory proved to be useful and why? What have I learnt from this?
I found that the most relevant and useful theory during the module 2 workshop was the idea of ‘more’ being better than ‘less’, in reference to the wisdom of the crowd theory. This is due to the fact that whilst I may believe that my individual ideas are ideal for certain scenarios, it is far more likely that my ideas can be significantly improved upon or replaced entirely if more diversity and variety is considered during problem solving stages of certain situations. Hence, I have been able to recognise that vast amounts of viewpoints, no matter the correctness of individual ideas, is almost always more effective than my individual thoughts.



